So you can create a collection
of these variables, and
then there's this variables to CSS,
I think that's the one I like the most,
yeah it's ugly, but it works.
So here we can go into colors or
all of them, you can choose for
the spacing, what units you want.
For the colors, what kind of thing things
you want, and you can hit generate.
And it will create a bunch of CSS
variables that are all of those colors,
and that you can then kinda
bring into your code base.
And now if you see that as primary-100,
you can reference that CSS variable and
it will be primary-100, right.
And if you are like, we don't use
CSS variables, there's another
plugin like I use CSS variables for
a trick that I use for dark mode.
We don't use the colors directly,
we'll have one for
like primary button color, right?
And if they switch into dark mode, I swap
out the values of the CSS variables.
So I don't have to do that ugly tailwind
thing with dark colon all over the place.
And so when you switch to dark mode,
all the values and
CSS variables change in the light
mode colors to the dark mode colors.
And we'll see how to do that and
generate that with figma as well, so
I use CSS variables but for
whatever format you use.
Yeah, that will create
a tailwind theme for you, and
there's other ones that do this as well,
if you all use prior to CSS variables,
we use Sass, right?
You can generate the sass variables,
whatever you need to do.
And that is really easy for that kind
of engineering to design collaboration
because now they're using
consistent values and
you don't ever have to type
in a hex code again, right?
You just basically have the ability
to just generate the primitives
in your code based on the designs, sweet.
So that works for colors, and
then once we have those colors in place,
they become very easy to use, right?
So here we have a frame and I want to
change the fill, I just go to libraries
right and those are the primary
colors that I generated earlier.
And then the accidental color that I made
while I was fighting with those vectors
that I accidentally made for you, now I
can just pick one of these colors, right.
And if I go ahead and
change the variable right,
it will then change everything
that's referencing that variable.
So now, all of a sudden, mergers and
acquisitions goes through,
we're no longer blue,
our color is now green, great.
Just go to the primary colors, change
them out to green, make corporate happy,
act like it took you three months,
and then go do something else.
Go outside and stare at the sun right,
and so those variables become
incredibly powerful for that,
and we'll kind of play with them.
But there's some like really kind of
sophisticated stuff you can do once you
have them in place.
The other thing we saw before is with
the numbers, I was typing it an 8,
16 border radius I have
been going through.
Because I didn't wanna use them
before I showed them to you, right?
Putting a corner radius of 16 on literally
everything we did this entire time right,
that can be a value of this
is our border radius, right?
One of the things that I would do right,
is I don't care for
the initial colors, what you name them.
There's two schools of thought
I subscribe to one of them,
not everyone agrees with me,
you choose your own adventure.
One is to create a color palette of red,
blue,
yellow green so on and so forth, right?
We're all gonna end up at the same place,
I don't do that,
I'll show you, I have this little
design system, worked as example.
Where instead I have it called,
you can kind of see over here.
So I've got my primary, secondary and
then I have an accent color, but
then I've got information success,
warning,
danger, some, but
they're full color palettes.
Even that because we did
the whole use red and
yellow all through our code base, right?
And then all of a sudden the app that
I work on has workflows that can be in
a status of running, canceled,
terminated, whatever.
Cool, let's say you want to change all
the terminated ones from red to like,
deep orange color, you use BG dash
orange everywhere, good luck, right?
Yeah, and there's so many oranges,
there's nine hundreds plus 50 and
950 so 11 colors,
you might not need every shade, right.
And if you have every shade guess what
it's gonna happen you're gonna use every
shade It right, and
then doing refactoring is hard.
You probably want a smaller set of colors,
but also if I wanna change all the primary
buttons from blue to green,
I can't just change green, right?
It'd be better if I had
a reference to hey,
this is the color of our primary buttons.
This is the color of
our secondary buttons,
this is the color of our
destructive buttons, right?
And so what you can do, is you can have
your initial color palette, right?
In fact,
let's go back over to this one and
I'll kinda show you the variables in here.
You can have this and you can see that
I've got colors and component colors,
colors is my entire color palette.
What you're gonna do is once you
have this entire color palette,
you're gonna select all of them.
And you're gonna right-click and you're
gonna edit, you're not gonna hit delete,
that's rude, you're gonna hit
hide from publishing, right?
You're gonna have
an entire color palette and
then you're never gonna speak of it again,
right?
What you're gonna do is
if you look over here,
I've got a separate collection
of variables, right?
And you can see if I look at button, so
this is the default color
of a primary button, right?
This is the hover color
of a primary button,
this is the active color,
this is the label of a primary button.
My variables are named for
what they're used for,
and they reference a color, right?
And what this does is create a really
powerful abstraction, if design decides,
yeah, purple still our brand,
but a different purple, right.
Then you go ahead and you change their
primary color to a different shade of
purple, everything pointing at that
purple, right then gets the new purple.
If on the other hand,
it's just the primary buttons are going
to now point to our blue color instead,
you can go in here and change those and
the designs get that effect, right.
And so
you can do that at any given point by,
let's say in here we'll create a color,
I can put in a hex code,
right, or where'd it go?
If I click on it I can go to libraries,
I can alias it to another color, right?
So if I need to change all the primary
colors from one purple to another purple
cool, and then everything pointing
at primary 500 gets that effect.
If I just need to change
the primary buttons right,
then I can go change those values as well,
right.
And so know that way you're not
actually referencing the real colors,
you're only using the semantic names,
right?
Hey, I don't know like this
aliases to some other color but
this is a primary button it should
be primary button blue, right?
And then you can say the same thing
like input fields are the worst, right?
Because you want all your input
fields look the same, but
one knows that there's
not just an input field.
There's an input field, there's a text
area, there's a select right, and
they all should look kind of the same.
So you can have the semantic
values point there and
then that point Points to a color, right?
The same works here where I've got tokens,
which are just a very curated set because
I don't need that many sizes of rounded
borders in my application, right?
I say that as somebody who has an
application with that many rounded borders
and now needs to go undo it, right?
Some of this is like referenced
by holes that I've dug for
myself but
these are the overall tokens but
then that means for a button label or
input padding, right.
Now if I want to change all of the inputs,
I changed what this variable points to.
Or if I changed my entire spacing system
to be based on 16 point equals one ram to
something else,
I can change those underlying tokens.
So you can have variables point other
variables, and then what you would do is
when you did either the variables to CSS
or whatever plugin makes you the happiest.
This one seems fine to me,
you do if you just run it,
let's say component colors and
hit generate.
It does point at these CSS variables,
which means I would
have to have those CSS variables exposed
in my code or I hit Ignore aliases.
And now,
my CSS variables are the hex codes, but
they are pointed to one source of truth,
right?
Hey, I don't this is just
an alert danger background,
those values are generated
from the design system, right.
If the designer has changed your mind,
generate me a new one of these CSS
variables, I drop it in, I act like it
took me a week and I go shop for guitars.
Now, how do we actually use
the variables for various things?
That's a great question, I'm glad that you
all thought it with your minds, let's see,
do I have some variable?
I've got this cozy padding,
that's scoped to I think everything
at this point, you can just
see places that we can use it.
So draw a frame and the colors we saw,
it's just in libraries but
what's super interesting
is now in a lot of places,
you will see this funny little,
like Hexagon.
And hexagon, as we all know,
means code right,
blame node js, I don't make the rules.
So now you can see that I can
just instead of putting 8 or 16,
I can put a reference, now the name
of this variable is problematic.
But I could put a reference to this value,
and then that eight will be in there.
And if I change the variable, everything
like that references that border radius
in this case,
light will change to the new value, right?
Great for designers, great for us right,
because we're generating code
based on those variables, right.
And so our code just yeah, we just
dumped in the new variable values and
ideally your UI changes as well.
There are some places where it's not as
obvious I'm trying to think of one off
the top of my head.
There are some places where you have
to right-click on the thing and
then you'll see apply variable, so
sometimes you'll see a little diamond,
we'll find it together.
I think stroke is one,
stroke you don't see the diamond, but
you got to right click on it.
Come on, you hit apply variable right,
and there it is, I don't make the rules,
I don't design these things,
sometimes it's there, sometimes it's not.
There are some limitations,
the colors only work for single colors,
if you alias are variable,
you can't be that variable 50% opacity not
gonna happen,
great against is still gotta use styles.
There's a lot of stuff you
still gotta use styles for
where they work they're super powerful.